Welcome to JW Broadcasting for January 2024.
In November, we enjoyed the exciting first half of the annual meeting program.
Now please, enjoy part two.
We'll now enjoy the first of two symposiums.
Each speaker will introduce the next.
So let's give our attention, please, to brother Jeffrey Winder,
who will consider the theme, how does the light get brighter?
In recent years, the annual meeting has been an occasion where clarified understanding of Bible truths,
a new light has been announced and explained.
Of course, it's not at every annual meeting that this takes place,
but when Jehovah makes something known, often it's at the annual meeting where it is announced.
Now, will there be new light today?
I think Brother Cook already spilled the beans a bit, but we look forward to see what is in store for our program.
But how do you ever wonder, though, how exactly does Jehovah reveal clarified understanding of the Scripture's new light in modern times?
When the governing body is meeting together, as the faithful and discreet slave, how does it work?
How exactly does the light get brighter?
How does Jehovah use that arrangement to clarify our understanding?
Well, first of all, what do we know from the Scriptures?
Let's look at four points.
The first one is this.
By what means does Jehovah reveal new light?
Well, for that, we can turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 2 and read together 1 Corinthians 2 verse 10.
For it is to us, God has revealed them through His Spirit, for the Spirit searches into all things, even the deep things of God.
So clearly, by what means does Jehovah reveal new light? It's by His Spirit.
We recognize the key role that Jehovah's Spirit has in revealing the truth.
Point two, to whom does Jehovah reveal clarified understanding?
Well, for that, we can turn to the book of Matthew, chapter 24, and read together Matthew 24 verse 45,
who really is the faithful and discreet slave, whom His master appointed over His domestics, to give them their food at the proper time?
So clearly, Christ has appointed the faithful and discreet slave, and it is through this channel that Jehovah through Christ works to provide spiritual food.
Just with those two first points, it's very clear to us how spiritual truth, new understanding, is communicated from heaven to earth by means of the Holy Spirit through the channel of the faithful and discreet slave.
Question number three, when does Jehovah reveal new light?
Well, we just have to look back to verse 45. Matthew 24, the slave will provide the food at the proper time.
There's a clear timing element indicated there isn't there.
And so, Jehovah reveals clarified understanding at His time when it is needed, and when it will help us to carry out His will.
Number four, at what rate does He reveal new light?
Is it all at once like a dump truck, or is it metered out like a trickle?
Well, the answer to that is found in the book of Proverbs chapter 4 in verse 18.
Proverbs 4, 18, with the path of the righteous is like the bright morning light that grows brighter and brighter until full daylight.
So the Bible here uses the illustration of daylight, and what does that teach us?
Well, the watchtower said, these words aptly apply to the way in which Jehovah reveals His purpose to His people gradually.
So just as daylight grows brighter and brighter gradually, a proper understanding of Bible truths comes gradually, as we need it and as we are able to absorb it and use it.
And we appreciate that, don't we? It's easier on our eyes when literal light gets brighter gradually.
And so it is with understanding of Jehovah's purpose as well.
For example, think about Abraham. Could Abraham have handled and absorbed a complete understanding of Jehovah's will at His time?
How He would use the twelve tribes of Israel, the Mosaic law, the understanding of Christ and the payment of the ransom, and the first century Christian congregation, the heavenly hope, the last days, details about the great tribulation.
No way, He couldn't handle all of that. He didn't need it.
But Abraham had what He needed to serve Jehovah acceptably during the time that He lived.
Well, we have the privilege to live during the last days, where true knowledge was foretold to become abundant.
But even still, it is released and made known at a pace that we can absorb, that we can handle, and that we can use.
And we thank Jehovah for that.
So this is what we know from the scriptures and from our own experience as well about how the light gets brighter in modern times.
It comes about by means of the Holy Spirit through His channel of the faithful discrete slave.
He reveals it gradually and at a time that it is needed.
Well, knowing this, then we are not embarrassed about adjustments that are made, nor do is an apology needed for not getting it exactly right previously.
We understand this is how Jehovah operates. He reveals matters gradually when it is needed.
And also, the governing body is neither inspired nor infallible.
And so it can air in doctrinal matters or in organizational direction.
The brothers do the best they can with what they have and what they understand at the time, but are happy if Jehovah sees fit to clarify matters.
And then that can be shared with the brotherhood. And when that happens, we understand this because it is Jehovah's time for that to happen, and we eagerly accept that.
But now back to our original question, okay, we understand these things from the scriptures, but really how does it work when the brothers are meeting together?
How does Jehovah help them come to a better understanding of things?
Well, that's an appropriate question because Jehovah does not intend for it to be a mystery or overly secretive.
In fact, in his inspired scriptures, he reveals examples of when understanding was clarified in the Christian era.
And a notable example is around 49 CE when clarification was needed regarding the requirements for salvation.
And specifically, the question was, would Gentile males first need to be circumcised and submit to the mosaic law in order to be saved?
This was a significant matter that could have divided the congregation, and so it was referred to the apostles and the older men, the governing body at that time.
And in fact, at Galatians 2.2, Paul states that as a result of a revelation, he brought the matter to the brothers in Jerusalem.
So Christ himself directed that this important doctrinal matter be settled by the brothers taking the lead.
And in Acts 15, Jehovah allows us to look in on that meeting, to be a fly on the wall as it were, to hear their discussion, to see how the Holy Spirit worked with them, how they used God's word, how they came to a conclusion, and then the result that was sent and conveyed to the congregations.
And the process is not entirely different today.
So let's take a look at what happened. If we turn together to Acts chapter 15, Acts 15, in beginning in verse 6, it says the apostles and the elders gather together to look into this matter.
So this is an important matter. It's brought before the governing body of that day. And then in verse 7, it mentions that there is much intense discussion.
So a lively conversation, the brothers felt free to express themselves respectfully, but they were sharing their thoughts and opinions about the different sides of the issue.
And in verse 7, Peter stands. And maybe this is the point that is reflected in our artwork here. And Peter begins to speak and relates his comments based on his real life experience with Cornelius.
So they're considering some facts. And if you look at verse 12, Peter's words strike a chord because the entire group becomes silent.
And in this we see humility, don't we? Because none of the brothers were trying to force their personal opinion or get their idea approved, they were collectively looking to Jehovah for direction on the matter.
Well, this makes way then for Paul and Barnabas to begin to explain their experiences, so more facts, more evidence that they could consider. And then in verse 13, James speaks up.
And he uses the scriptures to help the brothers draw a proper scriptural conclusion. He applies Amos 9-11 and 12 saying that Jehovah would turn his attention to the nations to take out of them a people for his name.
Well, verses 19 through 21, he recommends a decision. Verse 25 indicates that that decision was unanimous. And then in verse 22, it mentions that they send the brothers out to inform the congregation of this clarified understanding.
So the whole process described there, we see the use of God's word, we see the leadership of the Christ, the operation of the Holy Spirit, working through the brothers, taking the lead at that time.
And so we can see it's the process is not intended to be a mystery or to be overly secretive. And the process today is not much dissimilar than that.
In 2010, the watchtower explained it this way. It said, when the time comes to clarify a spiritual matter in our day, Holy Spirit helps the faithful and discreet slave to discern deep truths that were not previously understood.
The governing body as a whole considers adjusted explanations. What they learn, they publish for the benefit of all end quote.
So generally, the process happens this way. First of all, a question comes up. And so it could be that a governing body member in his personal study or his personal Bible reading notices something that then raises the question.
Or it could be that a question comes up during the preparation or translation of spiritual food that requires more consideration.
World events might put the spotlight on a particular prophecy that then gets closer attention. So in one way or another, a question comes up.
And that question is then put on the governing body's agenda for discussion. And the question is, does this require or warrant additional research?
The brothers are not making a final decision on what the new understanding will be just asking, does it warrant additional research?
And if the answer is yes, then a research team is assigned to provide recommendations and research for the governing body to consider.
And this research includes a summary of everything that we have said, the organization has said on the subject since 1879. All the watchtowers, what have we said?
Also, it includes what the context of the verse indicates about its meaning.
Further, what bearing do parallel accounts have on the understanding of the account if there are any parallel accounts?
And finally, what impact does the original Hebrew or Greek have on our understanding of the verse?
Well, once that whole research package is compiled, it's placed back on the governing body's agenda for review.
And of course, once it goes on the agenda, then each individual member of the governing body, under prayer, reviews the information and thinks about it in preparation for the meeting.
And then is discussed as a group at the governing body meeting, again, under prayer, relying on Jehovah's Holy Spirit.
And when this matter is discussed, the discussion is not rushed, nor is the decision forced.
But often, like in the first century, it's a lively discussion as the brothers feel free to share their opinions and their thoughts, the results of their meditation and their research.
But there's also humility there, because again, none of the brothers are trying to force their idea or try to get their thoughts approved, but there is this collective unified desire to see Jehovah's direction on the matter.
And where is he steering things? The goal is to discern Jehovah's direction on the matter.
And often, or at times, we could say, the final result might be quite different than what the research package originally recommended.
But that's Jehovah's Spirit working through the faithful and discrete slave to bring us to the right decision.
And the brothers are looking for a unanimous decision.
It's times it may seem like this is a solid adjustment, but if it's not unanimous, it just might not be time yet for it to be revealed.
So it's not forced, the matter is set aside.
And it could be that sometime later, even some years later, the matter comes back up and then it sails right through.
Or maybe it does get approved, but now with a couple of key points discern that weren't discerned earlier.
Well, with this thorough process, under prayer, and when there is unanimous accord, then the brothers take that as Jehovah's direction and then are happy to share it with the brotherhood.
So this helps us to understand the process, understand how light gets brighter in modern times.
And while it is interesting to us how our understanding is clarified, what really touches our heart is why it's clarified.
Turn with me, please, to the book of Amos, chapter 3.
And notice what Amos 3 7 says.
For the sovereign Lord Jehovah will not do a thing unless he has revealed his confidential matter to his servants, the prophets.
Doesn't that convey Jehovah's confidence in us?
Doesn't it indicate his love, his loyalty?
Jehovah is actively involved in teaching his people, preparing us for what lies ahead.
He's providing us with the understanding that we need when we need it.
And that is reassuring, isn't it?
Because as we progress deeper into the time of the end, as Satan's hatred intensifies and his attacks increase.
As we draw closer to the great tribulation and the destruction of Satan's wicked system of things, we can be confident that Jehovah God, our God, will continue to loyally provide us with the direction and the understanding that we need.
We will not be left without guidance, unsure where to go or what to do.
We will not be left to stumble in the dark because Jehovah has said,
the path of the righteous one is light, the bright morning light that grows brighter and brighter until full daylight.
Well, with these things in mind, I invite you to listen closely to the next two talks.
The first will be presented by Brother David's plane and is entitled,
Trust in the Merciful Judge of all the Earth.
By means of an angel, Jehovah God told his dear friend Abraham that he was going to destroy the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah.
The angel said, the outcry against Sodom and Gomorrah is indeed great and their sin is very heavy. Abraham was troubled.
He apparently wondered whether Jehovah had taken all of the factors into consideration before he made that decision to destroy the cities.
So he asked, will the judge of all the Earth not do what is right?
Well, we can understand why Abraham would ask that question.
It was early days in his relationship with Jehovah God.
He was just beginning to get acquainted with Jehovah and we can hardly imagine him asking the same question later when he knew Jehovah much better.
But have you ever asked a similar question, maybe when you were just coming into the truth?
Have you ever asked, for example, will none of those who died in the flood get a resurrection,
even those who may never have heard of Noah?
And what about Sodom and Gomorrah?
Will everyone who died in Sodom and Gomorrah sleep on everlasting sleep, the women, the children, babies?
And was there not one redeemable Assyrian soldier in that band of 185,000 who died at the hand of Jehovah's Angel?
We don't have the answer to those questions.
But we do know one thing.
The merciful judge of all the Earth will do what is right.
Wait a minute, did I hear that right?
We don't have the answer to those questions.
I thought we did.
In the past, our publications have stated that there's no hope of a resurrection for those who died in the flood or those destroyed in Sodom and Gomorrah.
But do we really know that?
The band of Sodom and Gomorrah were certainly wicked and they deserve to die for what they did.
But did they know any better?
They often did not, and his family preached to them.
And are we saying that if special pioneers had been assigned to Sodom, that they would have had no success whatsoever in preaching to the Sodomites, helping them to turn around and come to an knowledge of Jehovah?
Can we say dogmatically that not one Sodomite would have repented if Jehovah's requirements have been explained?
And then there's the fascinating statement made by Jesus found at Matthew chapter 11.
I'll give you a moment.
Matthew chapter 11.
And we're going to read verses 23 and 24.
This is interesting.
Matthew 11, 23 and 24.
And you, Capernaum, were you perhaps be exalted to heaven down to the grave you will come?
Because, and notice this, if the powerful works that took place in you had taken place in Sodom, it would have remained until this very day.
But I say to you, it will be more and durable for the land of Sodom on judgment day than for you.
It would have remained until this very day.
Jehovah's angel had told Abraham that if ten righteous men could be found in Sodom, the city would not be destroyed.
So was Jesus saying that if he had preached and performed powerful works in Sodom, ten righteous men would have been found and the city would have been spared?
It's also of interest to consider Jehovah's words to unfaithful Judah in Ezekiel 16.
Jehovah said that the citizens of Sodom were more righteous than the inhabitants of Judah.
So if Sodom is doomed, what about Judah?
But what about the disciple Jude's statement that Sodom and Gomorrah would undergo the judicial punishment of everlasting fire?
Well, that certainly will prove true of the cities and probably many of the inhabitants as well.
But does it mean that there's no hope for any of them?
Jesus' statement we just read would indicate that there is hope for some.
We just can't be dogmatic.
But again, we can say that the merciful judge of all the earth will do what is right.
Now let's talk about the flood of Noah's day.
In the past, we've said that any who died in the flood would not be resurrected.
But does the Bible say that?
Now Noah's contemporaries certainly were wicked.
The Bible says that man's wickedness was great on the earth and every inclination of the thoughts of his heart was only bad all the time.
So those living at that time were sinners.
But did they all get a thorough witness?
No one as family must have been very busy building the ark.
How much time did they have for preaching?
And were they able to do seldom worked territory?
We have found that people who live within ten miles of Bethel have never heard of Jehovah's Witnesses.
So can we guarantee that everyone living on earth during that time knew of Noah and what he was doing?
We can't really say that.
And can we say that if someone had been given an adequate opportunity, he still would have turned his back on Jehovah?
We just can't say that.
Now of course if Jehovah didn't bring them back, they wouldn't have any grounds for complaint.
They've had life.
And life is more than any of us deserves.
As we know when Adam and Eve sinned Jehovah could have destroyed them right away.
But instead he gave them the opportunity to have sons and daughters.
And as a result, we were born.
So the fact that you and I have drawn one breath is pure undeserved kindness on Jehovah's part.
Now on the other hand, for many years it was suggested that all those who the Bible says were buried with their forefathers were going to have a resurrection.
A Solomon was one of those.
The Bible says of him, then Solomon was laid to rest with his forefathers and was buried in the city of David his father.
Well, we reasoned that those who were buried with their forefathers were in the common grave of mankind.
And we know that the common grave of mankind is going to be emptied during the thousand year reign of Christ.
But we ask ourselves, when Bible writers said that someone was buried with his forefathers,
were they really revealing what Jehovah's final judgment would be?
Was Jehovah revealing to them, inspiring them to say how he was going to settle the case?
Or the Bible writers really saying that this is the way the person was buried.
This is the manner of his burial.
Remember, in Bible times the way someone was buried was very important.
Joseph and Jacob refused to be buried in Egypt.
High priest Jehovah was buried with the kings of Judah because of all the good things he had done.
And when a prophet said that a certain king was going to have the burial of a donkey, that wasn't good.
Solomon was the second wisest man ever to walk the earth.
Jehovah appeared to him twice, and the second time he appeared to him, he said,
if you and your sons turn away from following me and go and serve other gods and bow down to them,
I will cut Israel off from the surface of the land.
What did Solomon do?
He began to serve other gods and bow down to them.
How will the judge of all the earth view that?
That's not for us to say.
So we can't be dogmatic about the prospects of those who are said to be buried with their forefathers.
It could be that the Bible was just indicating the manner of their burial.
Now that isn't to say that they won't be resurrected.
It simply means that we don't know.
The righteous judge knows, and we know that he'll do the right thing.
Well, what do we know about Jehovah?
Why can we trust him to do the right thing?
Well, look at the record.
In the days of the prophet Joel, God's people were in a sick spiritual condition.
They were worshipping the bails and the golden calves and sacred poles.
They were lying, committing adultery, stealing, shedding innocent blood, oppressing widows and orphans.
Jehovah had good reason to wipe the whole nation out.
And yet what do we read at Joel 213?
Joel says, rip apart your hearts and not your garments and return to Jehovah your God.
For he is compassionate and merciful, slow to anger and abundant and royal love.
And he will reconsider the calamity.
He will reconsider the calamity after all that Jehovah was willing to show mercy.
Now this is very encouraging.
Why?
Many of our brothers have no trouble accepting the fact that Jehovah will forgive the sins they committed in their ignorance before they came to a knowledge of the truth.
But if they've committed a sin after baptism, they're afraid that Jehovah will never forget and he will never forgive them.
And yet what do we see here?
The nation of Israel was in a dedicated situation before Jehovah.
And yet Jehovah said, if you stop doing what is wrong, if you start doing what is right, I will reconsider.
Then you have the encouraging words found at Ezekiel 33.
Let's read this.
And I find that this is a good passage to read to brothers and sisters who may feel that Jehovah could never forgive them for what they've done.
Ezekiel 33 verses 14 and 16, verse 14 first.
And when I say to the wicked one, you will surely die.
And he turns away from his sin and does what is just and righteous, verse 16.
None of the sins he committed will be held against him.
For doing what is just and righteous, he will surely keep living.
Now, isn't that encouraging for someone who strayed from the truth?
Maybe God involved in some bad conduct?
And far too many of these are afraid that Jehovah will never forgive them.
They would love to come back to the truth.
They would love to come back to Jehovah, but they're afraid that Jehovah is not going to accept them.
And yet he says none of the sins he committed will be held against him.
The case of King Manasseh makes the point.
He was in a dedicated relationship with Jehovah, and yet for most of his life he did what was wrong.
But when he repented, turned around and started doing what was right, Jehovah wiped the slate clean.
What a marvelous merciful God we worship.
It shows that Jehovah will show mercy whenever he sees a basis for doing so.
Now consider how Jehovah dealt with the people of Nineveh in the days of Jonah.
Their conduct was so bad that Jehovah was determined to destroy the city, and Jonah was in agreement with that.
Yeah, wipe them all out.
But Jehovah was more merciful than Jonah was.
And when he saw that the people repented and turned around, he was willing to forgive them.
Why? The Bible tells us why.
They didn't know right from wrong.
They didn't know any better.
Will some of those Nineveits be back?
Jesus' words found at Matthew 12-41 seemed to indicate that they will.
He said, men of Nineveh will rise up in the judgment with this generation, and will condemn it,
because they repented at what Jonah preached.
But look, something more than Jonah is here.
So what do we see from these examples?
The men of Nineveh, Manassa, and others.
They were wicked. They did bad things.
They repented. They started to do what was right.
And Jehovah wiped the slate clean.
Well, today, power for judging has been given to someone else.
There's a different judge of all the earth.
And we read about him at John chapter 5.
John chapter 5.
And we're going to read verse 22.
I'll give you a moment.
John 5 and 22.
For the Father judges no one at all.
But He has entrusted all the judging to the Son.
Jesus has been given authority to judge the living and the dead.
Well, can we trust Him?
Can we be sure that Jesus will be merciful?
Absolutely. He's the exact image of His Father.
And the prophet Isaiah wrote of him,
he will not judge by what appears to His eyes.
Nor we prove simply according to what His ears hear.
He will judge the lowly with fairness.
And with uprightness He will give reproof in behalf of the weak ones of the earth.
The authority that Jesus has been given includes the authority to resurrect the dead.
He's the resurrection and the life.
Now, you know, we often say that Jehovah God knows everything about those who have died.
And that's true.
But since Jesus is doing the resurrecting,
it's reasonable to conclude that He also knows everything about the dead and the living.
And He's going to be able to resurrect them accurately.
Now, whether He'll share the power to resurrect with His anointed brothers when they're raised to heaven,
remains to be seen.
We'll stay tuned.
Well, what's the takeaway from this talk so far?
How would you explain it to someone who wasn't here today?
You would not say someone who died in Sodom and Gomorrah and in the flood are going to be resurrected.
Has Solomon isn't going to be resurrected?
No, no, no, you wouldn't say that.
What we're saying is that we shouldn't be dogmatic about who will and who will not be resurrected.
We just don't know.
But we trust Jehovah God.
We trust Jesus Christ that they will do what is right.
I know what you're thinking.
The wheels are turning.
And you're saying to yourself, come on, come on.
We've talked about the flood.
We've talked about Sodom and Gomorrah.
But what about the Great Tribulation?
Is there anything that we can or can't say about that?
No, that's a good question.
We should talk about that.
You know what?
I think my time is up.
It looks like I have to finish brothers by install.
And I don't think you want me to talk about anything else.
So what is the takeaway point up to this time?
I'm sure we got the point.
It's hoped us to think about our loving Heavenly Father Jehovah as the merciful judge of the entire earth.
And His Son, Jesus Christ.
Yes, we can trust them to make proper judgements.
We know that Jehovah and Jesus can read hearts.
And they have a long record of living by the perfect standards of justice that Jehovah has set up.
So what about the future judgements doing the Great Tribulation?
Is there something that we can adjust with regard to our understanding?
Well, before we start to do that, let's be quite frank.
Over the last few years, we've had a few changes with regard to the events that occurred during the Great Tribulation.
And if you've been in the truth for a while, sometimes it's a bit hard to remember,
was that what we used to believe, or is this what we believe now?
So to help us to make sure that we've got some idea of some of the events that occur during the Great Tribulation,
let's look at this review.
What event starts the Great Tribulation?
The destruction of battle on the Great.
That will be the time when the political powers turn on the world empire of false religion,
showing their disgust for this symbolic prostitute.
This will lead to the destruction of all false religious organizations.
What event ends the Great Tribulation?
The Battle of Armageddon.
That will be the final part of the Great Tribulation.
Jesus, along with the resurrected 144,000 and myriads of angels, will battle with all those who opposed Jehovah,
His kingdom, and His people here on earth.
This will be the war of the Great Day of God, the Almighty.
Now that we have the start and the end of the Great Tribulation in mind, let's ask a few more questions.
How long will that time period be from start to finish?
The answer is, we don't know.
We do know that many events are foretold to happen during that time period.
But these events may all occur in a reasonably short period of time.
For this discussion, though, let's focus on the few events that will occur toward the end of the Great Tribulation.
When does the attack of Gog of May Gog occur?
It doesn't occur at the beginning of the Great Tribulation, but toward the end of that period of time.
This attack on God's people by a coalition of nations will lead right into the Battle of Armageddon.
So Gog's attack will occur just prior to Armageddon.
When will the remaining ones of the anointed be gathered and taken to heaven?
The Bible book of Ezekiel indicates that when Gog of May Gog starts his attack, some of the anointed will still be here on earth.
However, Revelation 1714 tells us that when Jesus battles with the nations, he will come with those who are called and chosen.
That is, all of the resurrected 144,000.
So the final gathering of his chosen ones must occur after the start of the attack of Gog of May Gog and before the Battle of Armageddon.
This means that the anointed will be gathered and taken to heaven toward the end of the Great Tribulation, not at the beginning.
When will the final judgment of the sheep and the goats take place?
Again, although we can't be dogmatic as to the exact sequence of events, it appears that the final judgment takes place at the end of the Great Tribulation, not at the beginning.
That will be the time when the Son of Man comes in his glory and all his angels with him.
Of course, there are a lot of other events that are foretold to happen during this time period.
But for now, let's just focus on these few events, all of which will happen just before the outbreak of Armageddon.
What do we learn from them?
First, Jesus' judgment of the sheep and the goats and the destruction of the wicked will take place at the end of the Great Tribulation.
Second, there will be some of the remaining ones of the anointed on earth until the start of the attack of Gog of May Gog, right at the end of the Great Tribulation.
Third, the judgment of the sheep and the goats will include their dealings with Christ's brothers even during the Great Tribulation.
So that is a review of what we already believe.
So if you are writing down notes and you point, be careful what you say to others.
But how do these basic facts, when we look at the things that occurred toward the end of the Great Tribulation,
how do they affect our understanding of Jehovah's judgments by means of Jesus Christ?
Well, we know that the closer we get to the Great Tribulation, the clearer our understanding is of what will occur.
Yes, our understanding is clarified according to the proper time and also in a way that will help us not only to endure the Great Tribulation but also to prosper during that period of time.
So what we're going to do is consider four very interesting questions.
Yes, and I've got some time left.
The first question is, once the Great Tribulation starts, so we saw there in the chart with the destruction of Babylon the Great.
So once it starts, is there a door of opportunity for non-believers to actually join us in serving Jehovah?
Is there a door of opportunity?
What have we said in the past?
We've said, no, there will not be an opportunity for people to join us at that time.
Now, why did we say that?
Basically, we viewed the account of the flood as being a type and anti-type portrayal and that we thought the fact that the door of the ark was closed prior to the flood coming indicated that the door of opportunity would close once the Great Tribulation started.
But, of course, it's true Jesus did compare the time of Noah with the presence of him as a reigning king.
But notice Jesus didn't say anything that indicated this was a type and anti-type arrangement and he certainly didn't mention anything with regard to a door of opportunity closing.
So let's think about that question again.
Once the Great Tribulation starts, is there a door of opportunity still available?
Well, to answer that, looking at this time chart, remember the judgment of the sheep and the goats, the final judgment occurs when, not at the beginning, but towards the end of the Great Tribulation.
So let's think about some that we know, perhaps, unbelieving relatives, disfellowshipped ones, others that have heard the message, perhaps studied with us, could some of them, once they see the destruction of Babylon the Great, decide that what Jehovah's Witnesses were saying is correct after all, could they take a stand for the truth?
Well, if they changed their hearts and joined us, would we be disappointed? Now we can't be dogmatic, but we don't want to be like Jonah.
And so, are not the doors closed? No, no.
You see, we need to remember other cases and the scriptures that help us to understand how Jehovah as a merciful judge has dealt with people in the past.
For example, think about the Israelites when they left Egypt. Please, if you turn with me to Exodus chapter 12, Exodus chapter 12, and we're going to read the first part of verse 38.
So here is describing the Exodus. And Exodus 12, 38 says, and a vast mix company also went with them. Now do you notice there's a footnote there and what does it say? That is a mix company of non-Isolites including Egyptians.
So what happened? Well, during the time when the 10 complaints came upon the Egyptians, obviously some of these Egyptians started to see the distinction between Jehovah and the false gods that they worshiped.
So when decision time came and Israelites were leaving Egypt, some of these Egyptians joined the Israelites. And that isn't that interesting for us to note.
But of course, we might be thinking, yes, well, I understand why we said what we did before, but is it really the case that all these ones that we've stated with or some of them may have a chance to join us after Babylon the Great is destroyed? Is that fair?
Last minute repentance. But you see, are we imitating the merciful judge of all the earth? Really, we shouldn't be surprised if that were to happen, should we?
And think about it. As we looked in the time chart, we saw that this is a time period prior to the final judgment.
So anyone who takes this stand for Jehovah early in the Great Tribulation will still face the attack of Gog of May Gog, and that will be a very, very difficult time.
But now what do we need to note with regard to this? Well, just as in the first century in 66 CE, decision time came and many decided to go and leave Jerusalem at that point.
Now, they made their decision based on what they already knew and had heard. So in a similar way, our preaching work today is of utmost importance.
Let's notice what the Apostle Paul said is recorded in the book of Romans, Romans chapter 10 and verses 13 and 14.
And as we read this, think about the context of what we're talking about when Babylon the Great is destroyed.
So the time prior to that, we see it says in verse 13, for everyone who calls on the name of Jehovah will be saved.
However, how will they call on him if they have not put faith in him? How in turn will they put faith in him about whom they have not heard?
How in turn will they hear without someone to preach? Do you see why our preaching work is so urgent and important today?
Yes, many take the opportunity to make a decision right now. But could it be that once the Great Tribulation starts, many who have heard the message that Jehovah's Witnesses have preached may be in a position then to make the right decision, the right choice.
Well, again, we can't be dogmatic, but we certainly hope that that would be the case.
Now, while we're talking about this, let's talk about the elephant in the room. What do we mean? Well, you know, some of us in the past, we're not going to mention names.
But some of us have said, oh, you know, my unbelieving relative or, you know, I hope he dies before the Great Tribulation.
Aha, we know what you mean saying. You said, because if he dies before the Great Tribulation, he'll have a chance of a resurrection.
But during, but let's think about that. You see, does someone's eternal salvation depend on when they die or does it depend on really their heart condition?
You see, the merciful judge of the earth knows their heart condition. And really, what are we thinking if we ask that question?
You know, we imagine Jehovah saying to Jesus, look at this person, you know, they really should die forever. But look at it, they died now before the Great Tribulation.
Oh, now we have to resurrect them. I mean, really?
Jehovah is the righteous, merciful judge. He knows people's hearts. He can't fool him or trick him.
So that was the first question. I'm sure you found interesting. Once the Great Tribulation starts, does the door of opportunity pose?
The answer is, well, we'll have to wait and see. But according to the scriptures, it is a possibility that some can make a stand for the truth.
Second question, when does the preaching of the good news of the kingdom finish? Good question.
First start, let's remember, the good news is only good news to us and those who accept it. As Psalm 2 mentions over the rest of the world, it's never been good news, hasn't.
So what does Matthew 24-14 tell us? It tells us that the good news is going to be preached and then the end will come. Let's look at that timeline again.
What is the end referred to there? Well, it's the final part of the Great Tribulation.
So that means that during the Great Tribulation, the good news of the kingdom will still be preached and it's still good news to us, but not to the rest of the world.
That good news will become more hard hitting as time goes on, causing people to make a decision one way or the other, whether they accept the kingdom or not.
So isn't that yet another reason why we shouldn't be surprised that some may make a stand for the truth even during the Great Tribulation?
The third question, all those who die during the Great Tribulation, will they go into eternal death and never be resurrected?
Well, initially we can say the goats, they're not going to be resurrected, are they? Because they're going to everlasting cutting off according to what Jesus said.
And in 2nd Thessalonians chapter 1, it speaks of the punishment of everlasting destruction being metered out.
But what time period are we talking about? Well, let's look at our timeline again.
You see, this is referring to the time when Jesus comes with his holy ones.
So looking at our timeline, what does it show us? That this is at the very end of the Great Tribulation when people are judged as being goats.
Specifically, they have been given this judgment.
But there are some other questions that come up. You see, these ones who are judged as goats, those who receive everlasting destruction, obviously have had adequate opportunity to accept or reject the kingdom.
But what about those prior to that final judgment? So the Great Tribulation starts, we're not sure how long it goes, but each day it goes on.
These people who know that will die. Do you realize every day worldwide about 150,000 people die, either of natural causes, of wars, sicknesses, and so on?
So what about those ones? They're not actually killed by Jehovah as a punishment.
So what do we need to remember? The merciful judge knows who should be resurrected and who shouldn't be resurrected.
So we can't be dogmatic about those ones who may die at that time. We know that Jehovah and Jesus will do the right thing.
Now, another final interesting question. Will all those living during the Great Tribulation have a full opportunity to decide either for the kingdom or against them?
How would you answer? Don't say that aloud.
The simple answer is, we don't know. And we don't need to know because we're not the judges. It's above our pay grade.
But now there may be a little voice in you saying, but why don't we know? I've always believed during that time, that's it.
But you see, each day, we mention 150,000 people on average die, 350,000 new babies are born each day.
So even if the Great Tribulation was only a few days long, each day you've got more babies being born.
And what about areas where the good news hasn't reached to the greatest extent? Maybe in lands where our work is restricted, we might be wondering, well, will we get to preach to every individual?
Matthew chapter 10 verse 28, if you look at it later, seems to indicate, maybe we won't.
So now here's an interesting question.
Is it reasonable for us to say that Jehovah and Jesus automatically label millions of people as goats, even though they have never had a full opportunity to respond?
Interesting question.
If they haven't had a full opportunity and they die at that time, is it possible that they may receive a resurrection as unrighteous persons?
What's the answer? We simply don't know. We can't be dogmatic and we shouldn't be dogmatic because we don't know.
But rather, let's take comfort in what we do know and what do we know?
We know that Jehovah and Jesus are merciful, that they will always do the right thing. In Ezekiel chapter 33 verse 11, what does it say, Jehovah?
Takes no delight in the death of a wicked person. He wants them to change. And we know that Jehovah and Jesus will judge each individual in a balanced, righteous and merciful way.
Well now at this point you think, wow, that's a lot to take in. Maybe your hands are a little tired from taking notes. Don't worry.
An upcoming watchtower is going to give us all the details on this. So stay tuned. But in the meantime, what do we need to keep doing?
We need to keep preaching the message to as many people as possible. We have no idea what results may come from that.
And as we keep on preaching, remember, leave the judging to Jehovah and Jesus. They will always do the right thing, the merciful and just thing of that.
We can be absolutely confident.
Well, I was going to ask you, wasn't that exciting? But look at that applause that you've answered that question already. That was outstanding and so very touching.
We thank you dear brothers for presenting those parts for us. Above all, we're grateful to our Heavenly Father Jehovah who continues to help us to see things as he does.
And we leave so much in his wonderful hands and in the hands of his son.
Well, next on our program, we look forward to viewing a new video entitled Become Jehovah's Friend. You are precious to Jehovah, isn't that fitting? Let's enjoy the video.
Good morning students. This is your principal Rodriguez and I'm very happy to announce that soon we're going to have our annual holiday party. Isn't that exciting?
So get ready for games, treats, and more. It's going to be great.
Yay! Oh yeah! Oh yeah! Oh yeah!
Okay, everything is settled down. We'll see you all tomorrow.
See you there, Sophia. Oh wait, you can't go.
Well, that's all for today. Before I go, we'd like to announce the award for a student of the month, which goes to...
Caleb, where'd he go? Wow, look at Caleb.
That's my little brother. With Jehovah's help, he tries to be good in school.
I like learning about Jehovah. Are you ready to study? Oh, I'll get my book. I'll meet you outside.
Okay. Hey Zoe. Hey, what you're doing?
Um, I'm just about to meet Sophia.
Why do you hang out with her? She's so different, weird.
She never does anything fun.
You're different, Zoe. But in a cool way, you should hang out with us.
Not that, user.
Angela, please see me immediately.
See you later, Zoe.
Does it bother you that others think you're different?
What do you mean? The other kids say things.
Like, it's weird you can't celebrate holidays.
And that you can't have fun.
What? Of course we can have fun.
It can be hard sometimes, but it's good to be different.
Like Jesus. Like Jesus?
Yeah, that's right. We learn a lot about him at Family Worship.
In the Bible, Jesus said his followers would be no part of the world.
What do you think it means to be no part of the world?
That's a good guess.
But we don't have to leave the planet.
He said that he did not want to take his followers out of the world.
But...
That they should be no part of the world.
That's right, honey.
What else did Jesus say?
They are no part of the world.
Just as I am no part of the world.
How was Jesus no part of the world?
Let's see.
Jesus was different from everyone else and so were his friends.
He showed others how to be different and what they did.
What they said and even how they thought.
Really? How?
People aren't always nice to others they think are different.
But Jesus wanted to help everyone and that made some people very angry.
They wanted Jesus to be more like them.
But he didn't worry about what they thought.
Because who did Jesus want to be like?
Dova.
That's right.
Jehovah said that those who obeyed his voice were special to him.
So when you love and obey Jehovah and you are no part of the world like Jesus.
That makes you special to him.
I don't know if it could ever be like you.
What do you mean?
I don't know.
I...
I gotta go.
Jehovah, that makes you special to him.
It's a leopard.
Get away!
We don't want you here.
You shouldn't be here.
Lord, if you just want to, you can make me clean.
I want to be made clean.
This isn't one of us.
Jesus was different in what he did, said, and thought.
I'm sorry about your grandma.
This is for you.
It will help you feel better.
Thank you.
And that made some people very angry.
Oops.
I didn't see you there.
Are you okay?
Let me help.
Sometimes they pick on me too.
People aren't always nice to others that they think are different.
You should hang out with us.
No, that is her.
But Jesus wanted to be like his father Jehovah.
And that's what made him special.
Hey, darling.
How was your study with Sophia?
Mom, there's something I want to show you.
Oh, okay.
Enjoy the holiday party.
Hey, Zoe.
Aren't you coming?
Let me show you how it's done.
Hi, guys.
You didn't go to the party?
I want to do the right thing.
Okay.
Let's have some fun.
Oh, not again.
Well, we certainly cherish these beautiful videos, don't we?
Now, with that in mind,
would you like to know what is happening at the Ramapo site,
as well as the video production in Australasia?
Well, you enjoy this.
Let's give our attention to Brother Lat as he provides an update for us
in his part that is titled Jehovah's Chariot is on the move.
I'm glad you indicated you want to hear this.
The second Samuel chapter 15, verse 1,
tells us that Absalom,
who was trying to usurp the throne,
had a royal chariot built for himself.
It was pulled by majestic horses,
50 men ran ahead of that chariot.
Now, as impressive as that chariot
and writer may have seemed to many,
to the celestial chariot mentioned in Ezekiel chapter 1,
Absalom's chariot would be a sluggish,
miniscule rattletrap.
As we know, that chariot mentioned in Ezekiel chapter 1
represents the heavenly part of Jehovah's organization.
Who is the writer of this chariot?
Jehovah himself.
Why is he depicted this way?
Well, Jehovah lovingly controls the movements of his organization
to accomplish his will and purpose.
No wonder Ezekiel chapter 1, verse 18,
describes the rims of the wheels of the chariot
as having eyes all around,
all seeing Jehovah directs everything.
What is the speed of Jehovah's chariot?
Absalom's chariot may have been able to reach speeds up to 45 miles an hour
the speed of a racehorse.
But what about Jehovah's chariot?
Well, in the Bible, verse 14, chapter 1,
it describes its movements in comparison with flashes of lightning.
Now, a flash of lightning travels at 186,000 miles per second
and the speed of light.
But if we think about it, Jehovah's chariot is a lot faster than that.
In fact, we could say it travels at the speed of thought,
at the speed of Jehovah's thought.
And obviously, that would be immeasurably fast.
Now, we can't see into the invisible realm
and see how Jehovah is using the heavenly part of his organization
with lightning speed to accomplish his will and purpose.
But we can see how fast things are moving in the visible part of Jehovah's organization.
And that only makes sense in it because the earthly part is closely related to the heavenly
and is actually reflection of the heavenly part of Jehovah's organization.
Now, the foregoing discussion brings us to what Brother Cook mentioned,
our updates to fast moving projects that Jehovah obviously is directing.
And we're going to get brought up to speed.
You like the way I use that, right?
Up to speed since we're talking about moving, but things are happening.
And Jehovah certainly is directing matters.
And as mentioned, we're going to have an update regarding the audio video facility,
being built at Ramapo, New York.
Now, you probably recall that it's being built on property that the organization already owned.
And it's conveniently located only two miles from a World Headquarters facility at Warwick.
And a very interesting side point.
The governing body tried for several years really hard to sell this property.
With absolutely no results.
Then we came to realize this is ideal property to build a much needed facility
that can consolidate onto one site, the functions currently being done on many different properties.
One site to produce our audio, video, and beautiful artwork.
So just another example of Jehovah's eye seeing things.
In fact, we think of his words at Psalm 32.
Please go there.
Psalm 32.
And verse number eight, Jehovah says,
I will give you insight and instruct you in the way you should go.
I will give you advice with my eye upon you.
Jehovah lovingly, obviously directing things.
But I'm sure you'd like to see this video now that will give you an update on what is happening there at Ramapo.
So enjoy the video.
The specific purpose of the Ramapo project is to bring all media facilities under one roof.
As a project begins, we always want things to move fast.
But sometimes the reality is that it doesn't happen as fast as we would like it to.
It's been several years of some pretty dynamic planning.
And we've seen a lot of twists and turns and changes along the way.
We've had a number of challenges on the Ramapo project.
In the state of New York, there's only a certain season where you can take trees down.
We're only allowed to remove trees between November and the end of March.
And the town board approved this special permit for us to be able to cut the trees.
However, when we went to exercise that permit, we realized that another agency still had to give their permission for us to be able to use it.
Which we didn't get.
Originally, we had planned about 12 weeks to do all of this work.
And that 12 weeks included using mechanized equipment.
If that wasn't accomplished, we would be waiting an entire year to be able to cut those trees.
Well, the windows started closing from 12 weeks to 8 weeks, all the way down to 6 weeks.
And then somehow something in the permitting language opened our eyes to a new possibility that allowed us to take the trees down in a different way.
We got permission to cut the trees, but we had to cut the trees all by hand.
And in 4 weeks, we used an outside contractor to take down all the trees that we needed.
Two weeks early of the end of the tree cutting season.
Every single day, there's still much work to be done to get us the needed permits.
The design is continuing. The estimating for the project is continuing. That hasn't stopped. That hasn't slowed up one bit.
Because of some of the delays that we experienced, there was a need to reassign some of our brothers and sisters within the organization.
We had these willing volunteers. They were skilled. They were trained. They were willing to do whatever was needed.
But we just didn't have the work for them at the time.
We were able to communicate with different departments in the branch, at headquarters, and it just so happened that many of these departments had been praying for additional help.
The brothers had a meeting with us and they said, we know you're not 100% busy, like you want to be.
We'll be giving a number of you new assignments. Most of you, you'll go out for a while while we get our permits and come back.
They said that I would be going into CDE, and I didn't even know what that was.
Computer department engineering, and I thought, that's a way above me. I'm a construction girl.
But actually, I've loved it. I've learned so much. And the team that I've worked with, I've gotten close to them. And it's been a wonderful change.
It's really shown us that Jehovah is going to take care of us.
For us to be at Ramapo was one of the most amazing privileges we've ever had.
But we're still working for Jehovah and right in the center of his organization.
These brothers and sisters are real men and women of faith, helping to advance kingdom interest in all these other areas.
Obviously, when we hit some of these points where maybe we were waiting on approvals, the work did not stop.
The time has allowed us to work with the Bethel departments, to work with the governing body committees, to work with our outside expert audio video design teams.
And so, because of that, the buildings themselves have changed.
It was looked into how flexible spaces be created, and also how could some of these spaces be shared, maybe between different departments, to make the best use of the property that we have.
The art department will be in the same building with the other aspects of media, the audio part and the video part, so that when we need to collaborate, it'll be much easier to work together, so that we can make the very best possible product.
It's a state-of-the-art audio video and our production facility.
The process of designing that and getting it to stay ahead of not only the ever-changing technologies that we see in the industry, but also the needs for the organization.
It's a dynamic process.
The facility has been designed and will be constructed in such a way that if modifications need to be made later, to keep up with technology,
we won't have to deconstruct the building in order to implement those changes.
We've developed beautiful studios that will be functional not only now, but also for future projects.
One exciting feature of the Media Center will be the use of video walls for virtual production.
In fact, we've already begun filming with this new technology here at Patterson.
With these video walls, we can create digitally backgrounds that can be used to give the appearance that we are shooting it in for a location.
The governing body made it very clear that they're focused with the spirituality of those who are involved in our productions.
If the friends have to be off-site for long periods of time filming, it can really disrupt their spiritual routine.
Virtual production will allow us to reduce the need to travel or to even work hours that can interfere with spiritual activities.
There's some circumstances that arise that can sometimes limit our ability to travel to another location, but with the use of the video wall, we won't be stopped.
Video production will continue in the studio.
Now we'll be able to custom make some backgrounds that actually look like Bible lands.
And we're very confident with Jehovah's blessing that this new state-of-the-art facility will result in tremendous savings, efficiency, as we continue to produce beautiful video artwork to the benefit of the Brotherhood.
But now that video that you saw was actually a while back a little time ago.
We have some late-breaking news events to share with you since then.
When you saw in the video the trees cut down, they were just lying haphazardly, weren't they?
With the snow on the top, but since then, contractors have been very busy removing the trees, taking them out, clearing the site and preparation for other work that will come and all of this preceding this huge construction project that is looming just ahead.
So we captured some of that work, and we also are bringing you up to date with a flyover video clip.
So we want to show you this now, so it'll bring you even further up to date as to how things are looking.
So you saw the trees being removed, you saw carving out the entrance there in the hillside, so a lot of exciting things are happening.
Now soon contractors are going to begin blasting away large underground rock formations to prepare the site for further site work.
And according to our current time schedule, and I think you'll be interested to know this, at the late summer of 2024, just a few months from now,
we planned Jehovah willing with Jehovah's blessing. We're going to call in many more volunteers to help us to move this project forward speedily.
But dear brothers and sisters, please remember to pray for Jehovah's blessings on these efforts.
But now as we said, we had another update, and that's concerning the exciting project that is going on in Australia.
And as you know, it's the series of dramas entitled The Good News According to Jesus. Please enjoy this video update.
Now we'll be able to custom make some backgrounds that actually look like Bible lands.
And so the Good News According to Jesus project is the perfect candidate for the use of virtual production.
A video wall will be installed and ready for use at the Australasia branch in early 2024.
There's many formats out there in the world of Jesus' life and how it's depicted.
But how film is so accurate, the research and effort that's gone into it and has made it, so close to the Bible, it's going to make such a difference.
They're going to say Jesus what he was truly like. They're going to affect hearts and it's really going to help them to see Jehovah as well.
As we've been working with The Good News According to Jesus project, we've run into a few challenges to say the least.
Right from the start, we had fires, we've had floods, we've had a pandemic.
Due to a number of restrictions that were taking place at the time, things were delayed.
They even came a point where it just completely starts.
We did wonder how we were going to be able to produce this video and the time frames that we needed to do so.
We had to pick and choose which scenes that we had to shoot first because construction was trying to keep up with our film schedule.
So trying to manage those two together was quite difficult.
Some of the challenges also are depicting miracles. How are you going to depict some of the various illnesses and diseases?
How to film scenes like the miraculous catch of fish and Jesus walking on water in a realistic way?
It's a weighty responsibility, but there's also the amazing joy of being able to learn more about Jesus just through the process of trying to put it on film.
The Bible accounts that we are trying to depict involve a lot of animals.
We know it was part of the culture at the time, so we're really trying to incorporate that into this production.
We've had donkeys, shape, pigeons, and even camels here at the branch on set.
They need to be trained to work with actors, trained to be ridden. They need to be familiarized with the sets.
You actually start to see a bond established between the animals and the actors.
Fortunately, many of our brothers and sisters at work in farmlands and rural Australia had many of these animals that they were willing to make available for us.
There's a sister in a nearby rural congregation that has volunteered to help raise the pigeons that we're going to use in the temple scenes and other areas.
The shape loved to be around kids, and I love to be around the cost members, and it really does make a difference.
All of those animals essentially lend themselves to the realism of the sets that we're in and help bring the Bible accounts to life.
So one particular episode required the Judean wilderness.
After reviewing a few options here within the country of Australia, we saw that it wasn't as feasible as we would have liked for it to be.
After presenting the information to our brothers in oversight, we got a response that we didn't anticipate.
They came back asking, what about Israel?
A small crew traveled to Israel and actually filmed in the real Judean wilderness.
The local branch office provided support.
A number of scenes were filmed, and now when reviewing the material, we see Jehovah blessing that arrangement.
The backlog is a huge film set.
It has five historical areas.
We have the temple area and the temple slab.
Jerusalem area.
There's Kena, or Galilee.
And then there's Capernaum, including a little beach area, and Nazareth.
The backlog has roads, mounds, just landscapes so that we can have a variety of filming.
It was designed in a way where you can point the camera anywhere.
So it just helps you immerse yourself into the story and the life of Jesus.
This is a world that you've never seen before.
What's different about those sets there in Australia that we're typically using here is they have to last a lot longer.
To cover the entire span of the gospel accounts requires many, many years of recordings.
The brothers and sisters, they've shown amazing skill.
And they've worked through some very challenging conditions.
We've had heat, we've had rain, it's been dusty out here, it's been muddy at times, but they've worked through all of it.
And whilst the end product is this beautiful set, it's going to bring the ministry of Jesus Christ alive in an incredibly realistic way.
While construction was going, a contractor came in to the back lot to see the construction brothers.
He spoke to one of the brothers and tears and asked, what was this all about?
And we explained what we were trying to achieve.
And with tears, he said, I come from Israel, and this looks just like my home.
Seeing someone who has no idea about this project to come in and see how accurate it was really shows me how Jehovah is really looking after this project.
It isn't any one of us that have made this a success. It's Jehovah the whole way.
As we study these Bible accounts and figure out ways to bring them to life on the screen, it's teaching us to get into the motivations of who these people were.
The goal is to take them from being just characters in black and white on the printed page into real people that you're going to know and love for the rest of your life.
When we recount the tremendous amount of work that is being done to visually portray, depict the gospels of Jesus' life and ministry were thrilled.
We're absolutely amazed.
And all of this work at investment is not just for one convention drama.
In fact, this production sets us up for convention dramas for years to come in the future.
And you're going to truly enjoy them as they're rolled out.
But now, when we think about these dramas, these episodes, you probably want to know, when? Am I going to get to see the first episode? When?
Well, you'll be happy to know that next year, 2024, we're going to have them as portrayed into the convention program as two dramas.
That is, episode one will be two dramas, the 2024 convention, the regional and the special conventions you will enjoy them indeed.
In fact, we've prepared a preview of those two convention dramas.
And I think you'll enjoy this a short to preview. I know it's really early to show you something for the 2024 convention.
And I hope I don't get into trouble with a governing body for showing this prematurely just kidding.
I hope you don't think I'm that stupid.
It is with a governing body's full blessing and approval that we show you.
So please enjoy this governing body approved teaser for these two dramas.
Seeing that many have undertaken to compile an account of the facts, I resolved also because I have traced all things from the start with accuracy.
Do not be afraid, Mary. You will become pregnant and give birth to a son and you ought to name him.
Jesus, let your hover be praised, the God of Israel, because he has turned his attention to his people and has brought them deliverance.
For look, I'm declaring to you good news. For today, there was born to you in David City, a Savior who is Christ, the Lord.
Look, Jehovah's Slave Girl, may it happen to me according to your declaration.
The true light that gives light to every sort of man was about to come into the world.
The dramas over the next several years will have this kind of realism and will truly bring the gospel account to life, the good news according to Jesus.
Now, what you saw was just a two and a half minute teaser, video, little video.
But as we mentioned, we're going to, and that was just for episode one, but we are actively, speedily, fast, movingly, preparing more episodes.
In fact, you'll be happy to know that we're working right now on the next four episodes, after the two that the one really teaser of the one you saw, four more are being worked on.
And episode three is almost totally finished. We've almost got episode three done.
The governing body has already been reviewing episode one and an early edition of episode two and how powerful indeed they are.
And I know personally, I can say that I've been inspired, I've been motivated and even brought to the point of tears several times and other governing body brothers and helpers were affected similarly.
The realism, the impact, the power is absolutely amazing.
Well, we're confident that you appreciate receiving these two very important updates concerning significant fast moving projects and the governing body wants to keep you fully informed.
They really want you to be up to date because we need your prayers, we need your support, and we want you to know what is happening.
And we're confident that with Jehovah's blessing, then this is going to be something that's going to benefit the spiritual brotherhood in a tremendous, a profound way.
And we were just so anxious to be able to give you more of this even though we gave you what we could now.
But some might ask, why are we embarking on two projects like this when the New World is so close?
We might not even finish one of them, the end may come. Well, we just don't know, do we?
We don't know exactly when the end is going to come.
Here's an illustration. How many carefully selected smooth stones did David take out when he went to fight Goliath?
He took five, didn't he? I mean, did he need one? He just didn't know, did he?
So he was prepared, whatever it took. Well, the same way we don't know when the end is going to come.
Now, here's another thought, food for thought, could not these projects, if needed, be finished after the Great Tribulation and then used powerfully in the New World.
And thinking of the good news according to Jesus' episodes, would they not be wonderful tools to teach resurrected ones about God's Son?
Well, only Jehovah knows. Time will tell. But what did the watchtower say some years ago about the activity of Jehovah's people right when the end would come?
Here's what it's saying. Let me read you this quote. It said, the arrival of the Lord Jesus to execute judgment will come at a complete surprise even to Jehovah's people.
For it will no doubt find them at their busiest time of activity. So we're going to be surprised. We're going to be very busy when the end comes.
And we say, if the end comes before we finish either one of these projects, then we say, Hallelujah. Praise God.
But we're going to be busy right up until the end. Jehovah with his help and his support.
And you think a scripture in Second Kings chapter 13 verse 18, Jehovah was not at all pleased with King Joach.
Remember, he took the arrows, he struck the ground three times and then he stopped. Why?
Because Jehovah does not like and he doesn't bless a lack of zeal and enthusiasm.
So we want to make sure we're zealously working right up until the end comes.
Well, in conclusion, we say with your continued support and prayers and our behalf fast moving amazing things are happening in the earthly part of Jehovah's organization.
And we give all thanks to Jehovah that great celestial chariot writer we give thanks to him.
And we give thanks to the heavenly part of his organization. How we appreciate the direction we are receiving by means of Holy Spirit.
You keep clapping and I'll just keep smiling.
That's wonderful. That was a very rich series of talks and we thank you dear brothers very much.
And above all, we thank Jehovah for how he is guiding us through all of these wonderful things.
Now, those of you listening, no doubt picked up on adjustments being made by the faithful and discrete slave based on scriptural principles in Jehovah's precious word, the Bible.
Not the beginning of the program we mentioned it would there was a landmark annual meeting 10 years ago.
And now with what we've learned today about Jehovah's mercy and his judgment as well as our personal responsibility before him.
We see the power of God's word and its principles at work, don't we?
So then this program too is truly landmark and as one of the branches wrote in it is indeed one that we will always remember.
Now, it's fitting as we approach the great tribulation that we now have received a better understanding of these things, don't you agree?
It's very good.
As Proverbs 3 and verse 5 urges us keep trusting in Jehovah with all your heart, do not rely on your own understanding.
And as we do this our Heavenly Father promises to make our paths straight and he is certainly doing that and we love him so much for doing that.
Jehovah gets the praise for everything that has come out in this annual meeting and we give much credit to his dear Son our King Christ Jesus.
What a delight to serve in this way under their guidance.
We are sure you enjoyed part two of the annual meeting. It's always a joy to share this momentous occasion with all of you.
Our postcard for this month is from the smallest country in the Western Hemisphere, the Federation of St. Kits and Nevis.
St. Kits and Nevis lie in the Leeward Islands in the Eastern Caribbean Sea.
The islands are known for their beaches, reefs and tropical weather.
A channel called the Narrows separates the two volcanic Isles.
Mount Lai Amiga at the center of St. Kits is one of the highest volcanoes in the Caribbean.
Lai Amiga is the name given to the island by the Kalanago Indians.
It can be translated as fertile land, a fitting description for how the volcanic soil yields abundant crops.
But St. Kits and Nevis have proven to be spiritually fruitful as well.
The good news spread to St. Kits and Nevis in the 1930s.
During World War II, however, the importation of our literature was banned.
Cartons containing the book's children and the New World, as well as the Watchtower edition of the American Standard Version Bible, were confiscated to be burned at a sugar factory.
Two courageous brothers worked at the factory and saved enough books and Bibles for the congregation.
When going door to door, our brothers generally don't knock.
Instead, they call out inside to make it clear that they are looking for someone inside the house, not calling for someone on the street or in a neighboring yard.
The people of St. Kits and Nevis spend much time outside the home, working or visiting with family and friends, so it can be difficult to find them at home.
Publishers look for opportunities to witness wherever they are.
Tourism makes up a large part of the economy, with hundreds of thousands that is many times the local population visiting each year by cruise ship.
Many of these tourists will pass one of our literature carts.
Since it's expensive to travel to another island for assemblies and conventions, St. Kits has what is called an expandable kingdom hall.
For most of the year, it functions as a normal kingdom hall for two congregations.
But for our three larger theocratic events each year, added chairs increase the capacity.
Baptismal candidates travel to the nearby Timothy Bay for water immersion.
The expandable kingdom hall also provides needed space for the memorial attendees, often three times the number of the publishers.
The 326 publishers from all four congregations in St. Kits and Nevis send their warm love and greetings to the entire brotherhood.
From the world headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is J.W. Broadcasting.